**The Study of the Mechanism of Utilitarian and Hedonic Intelligent
Recommendations and Job Engagement**

Candidate Name： [Meiyang He]{.underline}

School or Department: [School of Management]{.underline}

Faculty Mentor: [Prof. Pingqing Liu]{.underline}

Chair, Thesis Committee： [Prof. Erdong Zhao]{.underline}

Degree Applied: [Master of Management]{.underline}

Major： [Business Administration]{.underline}

Degree by: [Beijing Institute of Technology]{.underline}

The Date of Defence： [May, 2025]{.underline}

#  Abstract

The advancement of internet and intelligent technologies has
significantly transformed employees\' leisure patterns in the workplace.
The influence of non-work-related smart device or application usage
during work hours on employee performance has garnered widespread
academic attention. However, little research has explored whether the
intelligent recommendation mechanisms of information consumption
platforms spill over into employees\' daily work routines, exerting
either positive or negative effects on their behavior. Intelligent
recommendation systems leverage big data analytics and machine learning
algorithms to deliver personalized content tailored to user preferences.
The highly accessible nature of this technology raises concerns about
its over-intrusion into daily life, leading to excessive time
consumption and cognitive narrowing. Drawing upon the triadic reciprocal
determinism framework of Social Cognitive Theory (environment,
individual, and behavior), this study incorporates self-regulation---a
personal trait that modulates external environments and individual
behaviors---to investigate the pathways and mechanisms through which
intelligent recommendations influence employee work engagement.

Based on a literature review and guided by social cognitive theory, this
study constructs a theoretical model in which utilitarian intelligent
recommendation influences work engagement through flow experience, while
hedonic intelligent recommendation affects work engagement through both
flow experience and cognitive lock-in. Additionally, the moderating role
of self-regulation in this model is explored. The study adopted a
questionnaire survey method, collecting data from corporate employees in
Beijing, Shaanxi, Hunan, and other regions, yielding 335 valid
responses. For quantitative analysis, this study first conducted
reliability assessment and bivariate correlation analysis using SPSS
26.0, then performed mediation and moderation examinations through the
SPSS PROCESS macro. Furthermore, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was
carried out via Mplus 7.4 to validate the measurement models, ensuring
the robustness of the analytical framework. The results revealed that:
(1) Both utilitarian intelligent recommendations and hedonic intelligent
recommendations indirectly enhance work engagement by eliciting flow
experiences. (2.) Hedonic intelligent recommendations simultaneously
trigger cognitive lock-in, which in turn negatively impacts work
engagement. (3) Self-regulation moderates the positive effect of flow
experiences on work engagement---higher self-regulation strengthens this
relationship. (4) Self-regulation also buffers the negative effect of
cognitive lock-in on work engagement---higher self-regulation weakens
this detrimental influence.

Theoretically, this study extends the research on intelligent
recommendations to the field of organizational behavior, revealing the
mechanisms through which utilitarian and hedonic intelligent
recommendations influence work engagement. It clarifies the differential
effects of these two types of recommendations and validates the critical
moderating role of self-regulation. Practically, this study deepens the
understanding of algorithmic technologies for both organizations and
individuals, offering insights for individuals to better adapt to
algorithm-driven environments. It also provides valuable guidance for
organizations and employees in managing the boundaries between work and
non-work domains.

**Key Words**: Intelligent Recommendation; Utilitarian and Hedonic
Value; Work Engagement; Self-regulation

#  1. Introduction

在以算法为核心的数字生态中，智能推荐成为人机交互的主导机制，用户不再主要依赖主动搜索，而是在平台对历史行为与偏好建模的基础上被持续推送个性化内容。这种分发机制改变了个体的注意力配置、时间结构与跨域资源流动方式。尽管智能推荐在消费与媒体情境中的影响已获得广泛关注，组织管理情境下的心理---行为后果却研究不足。随着移动互联与弹性工作制的普及，工作与非工作边界日益模糊，员工在非工作时段接触的推荐内容可能发生跨域溢出，正向地为工作提供资源，也可能负向地侵蚀注意力与时间，从而影响工作投入。工作投入作为描述个体在工作中活力、敬业与专注的积极心理状态，不仅关联绩效、幸福感与组织承诺，也可作为观测算法环境在组织情境中影响的关键结果变量。

本文以社会认知理论为总体框架，将智能推荐视作重要的外部环境输入，强调其通过个体的认知与情感加工机制影响后续工作行为。为厘清内容类型的差异化影响，我们引入功利---享乐二分框架：功利型推荐偏向与工作目标一致的工具性与信息性内容；享乐型推荐偏向情绪调节与即时愉悦的娱乐性内容。基于心流体验与认知锁定两种对立心理过程，我们提出智能推荐对工作投入的双通道作用机制。进一步地，我们考虑自我调节这一核心个体资源的边界作用：较高的自我调节水平可能放大积极通道的转化效率并抑制消极通道的负向影响。为实证检验上述机制，我们开展基于同一问卷样本的两组互补性分析，分别聚焦功利型路径与享乐型路径的中介与调节结构，并在总体上对"算法---认知---行为"的组织行为学解释路径进行理论化与经验化的整合。

# 2. Theoretical Grounding and Hypothesis Development

本研究立足社会认知理论，以"算法环境---个体认知/情感---工作行为"的三元交互为总框架，结合功利/享乐价值视角对智能推荐内容进行类型化刻画，并以"心流体验---认知锁定"的双通道机制阐释其对工作投入的异向影响，同时引入自我调节作为关键边界条件，以说明何以同一算法环境在不同个体与情境下呈现差异化后果。下文从三方面展开理论奠基，并在叙述中逐步提出与原文一致的假设结构。

## 2.1. The social cognitive theory

社会认知理论强调外部环境、个体认知与行为结果之间的三元交互决定关系，个体对环境线索的持续解释与再表征，决定了其后续的动机、情绪与行为投入。在数字生态中，嵌入平台的人机协同与算法驱动推荐构成了高度显著的环境输入：平台依据历史行为与偏好进行个性化推送，改变了信息的可得性与显著性，重塑注意力分配与时间结构。置于工作---非工作边界日益模糊的现实中，非工作时段的算法暴露不仅影响当下的体验，也可能跨域溢出至工作情境，进而通过积极或消极的心理加工路径影响工作投入。由此，推荐内容一方面可能激发与目标一致的动机、提升掌控感与专注，从而提高投入；另一方面也可能通过黏着与路径依赖侵蚀注意与时间，抑制投入。基于此总体框架，本文将智能推荐视为关键的环境输入，预期其对工作投入的影响以"认知/情感加工"为中介而实现。具体到两类内容，功利型与享乐型推荐均应提升个体的沉浸与愉悦体验，而沉浸体验可正向转化为工作投入。因此，提出：

假设H1：功利型智能推荐正向影响心流体验；

假设H2：享乐型智能推荐正向影响心流体验；

假设H3：心流体验正向影响工作投入。

## 2.2 A utilitarian/hedonic value perspective

功利/享乐二分作为消费与信息处理领域的经典视角，分别刻画以工具性、目标一致性与实用效益为导向的功利型内容，以及以情绪调节、娱乐性与即时愉悦为导向的享乐型内容。迁移至算法推荐情境，功利型推荐通常围绕职业发展、技能提升与工作相关知识，增强信息的任务相关性与效用，易于提升自我效能与掌控感，进而诱发具有专注与内在愉悦特征的心流体验；享乐型推荐通过多样而个性化的娱乐内容与情感唤起，亦可在短时内提升专注与愉悦，形成沉浸状态。心流体验作为高挑战---高技能匹配下的深度投入状态，能够通过积极情绪、动机提升与资源补给机制转化为更高的工作投入。由此可推断，两类内容对工作投入均存在经由心流的正向间接效应，其中功利型路径更强调目标一致性的资源补给，享乐型路径则体现情绪修复与心理恢复的跨域溢出。基于此，提出：

假设H4：心流体验在功利型智能推荐与工作投入之间发挥正向中介；

假设H5：心流体验在享乐型智能推荐与工作投入之间发挥正向中介。

## 2.3 Flow experience and cognitive locking

在算法驱动的个性化信息环境中，享乐型智能推荐通过情绪唤起与持续的新奇刺激，容易诱发短时而强烈的沉浸体验，表现为高专注、感知控制与内在愉悦的"心流"状态。心流可作为积极心理资源，经由情绪修复、动机提升与自我效能增强的路径溢出至工作情境，进而促进工作中的活力、敬业与专注，即工作投入的提升。然而，同样源自享乐内容的个性化精准推送与情感互动，也可能在重复强化与路径依赖中累积为"认知锁定"：个体对既有内容流形成持续偏好，对替代路径产生较高转换成本知觉与回避倾向。锁定的结果是对有限注意力与时间资源的占用，削弱个体在任务上的资源配置，进而抑制工作投入。因此，享乐型推荐对工作投入呈现"积极通道（经由心流）"与"消极通道（经由锁定）"并存的双刃剑效应；相较之下，功利型内容以目标一致性与信息效用为导向，更易通过心流的积极通道促进投入，而弱化了锁定的消极倾向。

据此提出：

假设H6：享乐型智能推荐正向影响认知锁定。

假设H7：认知锁定负向影响工作投入。

假设H8：认知锁定在享乐型智能推荐与工作投入之间发挥负向中介作用。

## 2.4 The boundary function of self-regulation

自我调节是围绕目标进行自我监控、注意力管理与行为修正的能力，体现为在多重线索竞争中维持目标一致性与执行控制的个体资源。在积极通道中，更高水平的自我调节有助于把心流状态下的积极情绪与专注更有效地转译为稳定且可持续的工作投入；在消极通道中，自我调节通过分心抑制、时间管理与策略性切换，减弱认知锁定对工作投入的负面影响。由此，自我调节不仅直接调节"心流→工作投入"与"认知锁定→工作投入"的路径强度，还将改变两类推荐经由上述心理机制影响投入的间接效应大小，形成一组"有调节的间接效应"。

据此提出：

假设H9：自我调节正向调节"心流→工作投入"路径，即自我调节越高，心流对工作投入的正向作用越强。

假设H10：自我调节正向调节"认知锁定→工作投入"路径，即自我调节越高，认知锁定对工作投入的负向作用越弱。

假设H11：自我调节强化功利型智能推荐经由心流对工作投入的正向间接效应。

假设H12：自我调节强化享乐型智能推荐经由心流对工作投入的正向间接效应。

假设H13：自我调节弱化享乐型智能推荐经由认知锁定对工作投入的负向间接效应。

# 3. Overview of Current Research

围绕智能推荐、工作投入与相关心理机制的既有研究为本文提供了多维支撑，但在组织行为语境的整合上仍存在明显空白。首先，关于智能推荐，营销与信息系统领域已从机制特征（相关性、偶然性、幽默性等）与用户响应（满意、持续使用、黏着度）展开广泛讨论，短视频与电商平台的研究尤其强调个性化推送对认知与行为的塑形。然而，这些研究更多立足消费或媒体使用场景，尚缺少将内容类型系统区分并外推至组织管理后果的工作。其次，关于内容类型，功利/享乐二分在产品与信息消费研究中确立了稳定的测量与效应方向，表明两类价值在认知评价与情绪反应上的差异会引致不同的行为路径，但将其用于刻画"算法推荐的内容维度"，并与员工工作状态相联结的证据仍然稀缺。第三，关于工作投入，大量研究基于角色理论与JD-R视角揭示了其前因系统，包括个体资源、工作资源与组织因素等，也证实了其对绩效与幸福感的正向作用；但将"算法环境中的内容摄入"视作可变的外部输入以解释投入的波动，尚未形成通行范式。第四，关于心流体验与认知锁定，两者分别代表积极与消极的心理机制：心流在工作、人机交互与学习情境中被反复证明可促进专注与愉悦，并与投入显著相关；认知锁定则源于路径依赖与转换成本积累，尤其在高个性化与强互动的平台环境中更易发生，并与时间---注意力的侵蚀相关。尽管有研究提示智能推荐的信息特征可以促进心流并增强继续使用意愿，也有研究指出认知成本与依赖的提升会加深锁定，但在同一模型中并置二者，系统解释"同一内容类别的双重后果"的工作仍待完善。最后，关于自我调节，既有证据显示其对注意资源分配、目标承诺与行为修正具有关键作用，能够在算法渗透的环境中充当"阀门"，但其在"心流---投入"和"锁定---投入"两条路径上的异向调节及其引致的有调节的间接效应，尚缺少在组织情境下的系统检验。

综上，现有研究在四个方面存在不足：其一，缺乏将智能推荐内容以功利/享乐维度系统化地迁移至组织行为结果的研究；其二，缺乏在统一框架下同时检验"心流的积极通道"与"锁定的消极通道"的双通道证据；其三，对工作---非工作边界弱化背景下，算法内容的跨域溢出如何影响工作投入的机制识别不足；其四，个体层面自我调节作为边界条件在该链条中的调制效应与有调节的间接效应缺乏系统验证。本文据此提出并实证检验"内容类型---心流/锁定---工作投入---自我调节"的整合模型，以弥补上述空白并将智能推荐研究外延至组织行为领域。

# 4. Study 1

Study
1围绕正向通道展开，重点检验功利型与享乐型智能推荐对心流体验的影响，以及心流体验对工作投入的影响，并探查心流在两类推荐与工作投入之间的中介作用。该研究以同一问卷数据为基础，突出对积极路径的验证。

## 4.1. Participants and Procedure

样本来自中国北京、陕西、湖南与河南等地的多类型组织，涵盖民营企业、国有企业与机关单位。研究邀请374名员工参与，最终获得335份有效问卷，有效回收率达89.5%。样本在人口统计学特征上分布合理：性别比例男性约56.7%、女性约43.3%；教育程度涵盖专科及以下、本科、硕士与博士；年龄主要集中在30--40岁区间；工龄结构兼具初中高年限。为降低共同方法偏差，研究在程序与统计两方面采取控制：数据采集在不同时间节点分步进行，统计层面采用Harman单因子检验与验证性因子分析（CFA）比较多个竞争模型。

## 4.2. Manipulation and Measures

本研究为基于问卷的相关性设计，不涉及实验操纵。各构念采用成熟量表并经翻译回译与本土化修订，使用Likert七点评分。智能推荐的测量融合推荐助手量表与短视频情境修订量表条目，区分功利型与享乐型两个维度；工作投入采用UWES量表，覆盖活力、敬业与专注；心流体验采用人机交互情境的三维度量表（感知控制、专注与内在愉悦）；此外收集人口统计学控制变量。信度分析显示内部一致性极佳：功利型约0.93、享乐型约0.91、心流约0.98、工作投入约0.99。

## 4.3. Analytic Strategy

首先进行CFA验证测量模型的区分效度，随后开展描述性统计与相关分析。在假设检验阶段，采用逐步回归与Process宏检验心流的中介作用，使用Bootstrap方法构建间接效应的置信区间，并报告关键路径系数与显著性。

## 4.4 Study 1---Results

测量模型拟合优良：六因子模型的χ2/df约1.15、RMSEA约0.021、CFI与TLI约0.995、SRMR约0.025，显著优于合并因子与单因子模型，支持区分效度。相关分析显示，功利型与享乐型智能推荐均与心流体验显著正相关，心流体验与工作投入显著正相关。在回归路径中，功利型与享乐型推荐均显著正向预测心流；心流显著正向预测工作投入。将心流纳入模型后，功利型与享乐型对工作投入的直接效应有所减弱，Bootstrap检验显示"推荐→心流→投入"的间接效应显著，表明心流在两类推荐与工作投入之间发挥部分中介作用。整体结果为正向通道提供了系统证据，印证了智能推荐通过提升沉浸式专注与愉悦体验而促进工作投入。

## 4.5 Study 1 Discussion

Study
1表明，无论内容偏向工具性还是娱乐性，智能推荐均可通过心流体验促进员工的工作投入。这意味着在工作---非工作边界日益模糊的现实中，非工作时段的积极体验与心理资源能够跨域转化为工作中的活力与专注。对组织实践而言，合理引导与筛选与工作目标一致的推荐内容，或在工作前后窗口增强正向体验的积累，可能带来对工作投入的实质性提升。但应注意，心流的积极转化需要与个体目标结构相匹配，且与时间---场域边界管理配套，方能稳定转换为工作行为。

# 5. General Discussion

## 5.1. Theoretical Contributions

本文从内容类型视角将智能推荐研究拓展至组织行为领域，构建并验证了"内容类型---心流/锁定---工作投入"的双通道框架。与以往侧重消费情境与用户指标的研究不同，本文将注意力于"算法---认知---行为"的链条置于工作语境，揭示了功利与享乐推荐对员工投入的差异化驱动机制。其次，本文系统验证了心流的积极通道与锁定的消极通道的并行结构，解释了享乐型推荐对工作投入的双刃剑效应。再次，本文识别了自我调节在两条路径上的关键边界作用，并展示了有调节的间接效应格局，从而将个体资源观引入算法环境下的心理---行为转化模型，丰富了社会认知理论在数字情境中的展开。

## 5.2. Practical Implications

在组织治理层面，应将算法环境纳入数字化管理框架，围绕"目标一致性、时间---场域边界与注意力保护"进行制度与技术耦合设计：例如在工作时段提升工作友好型内容的可达性、降低娱乐性内容的即时可见度，设置注意力提醒与窗口化呈现，优化跨域资源的正向溢出。在员工发展层面，应开展算法素养与自我调节训练，帮助员工识别功利与享乐内容的心理后果与时间成本，掌握目标设定、注意力监控与分心管理等核心技能。对平台与政策层面而言，可通过与平台方协作优化推荐策略，提升任务相关性，弱化过度娱乐化的干扰；在合规边界内探索为组织场景配置"工作模式"的可选项，尊重个体选择的同时，为理性使用创造条件。

## 5.3. Strengths, Limitations, and Future Directions

本文优势在于：一是以统一样本系统检验双通道机制与边界条件，避免了样本异质性干扰；二是测量模型具有优良的区分效度与内部一致性，为结构路径的解释提供扎实基础；三是以组织行为结果（工作投入）为核心，将算法内容类型的研究推进至管理学语境。局限在于：研究采用横断面与自陈数据，因果推断仍需审慎；样本虽覆盖多地与多类型组织，但外部效度有待提升；对认知锁定的刻画主要依赖量表，尚可引入行为层面的数字足迹。未来研究可采用多源/多时点与实验---追踪结合的设计，扩展不同平台与推荐机制特征（相关性、偶然性、幽默性）与内容类型的交互；引入团队规范与组织政策等上位变量，考察"平台---组织---个体"的多层交互；在方法上可结合客观使用时长与交互事件日志，更细粒度地呈现"注意力---时间"侵蚀过程。

## 5.4. Conclusion

基于社会认知理论，本文区分功利与享乐两类智能推荐内容，提出并验证了通过心流体验与认知锁定影响员工工作投入的双通道模型，并识别了自我调节的关键边界作用。研究表明，功利与享乐推荐均可经由心流促进投入，而享乐推荐还可经由认知锁定抑制投入；自我调节既放大积极通道，也弱化消极通道。上述发现为理解算法环境在组织语境中的心理---行为后果提供了系统性解释，并为组织的算法治理与员工能力建设提供了可操作的路径。

# Declarations

# References

1.  Von Krogh G, Roberson Q, Gruber M. Recognizing and utilizing novel
    research opportunities with artificial intelligence\[J\]. Academy of
    Management Journal, 2023, 66(2): 367-373.

2.  Cukier K. Commentary: how AI shapes consumer experiences and
    expectations\[J\]. Journal of Market, 2021, 85(1): 152-155.

3.  Huang M H, Rust R T. AI in service\[J\]. Journal of Service
    Research, 2018, 21(2): 155-172.

4.  Pelau C, Dabija D C, Ene I. What makes an AI device human-like? The
    role of interaction quality, empathy and perceived psychological
    anthropomorphic characteristics in the acceptance of artificial
    intelligence in the service industry\[J\]. Computers in Human
    Behavior, 2021, 122: 106855.

5.  Kietzmann J, Paschen J, Treen E. Artificial intelligence in
    advertising: How marketers can leverage artificial intelligence
    along the consumer journey\[J\]. Journal of Advertising Research,
    2018, 58(3): 263-267.

6.  范文芳, 王千.
    个性化智能推荐对消费者在线冲动购买意愿的影响研究\[J\].管理评论,
    2022, 34(12): 146-156+194.

7.  Puntoni S, Reczek R W, Giesler M, et al. Consumers and artificial
    intelligence: An experiential perspective\[J\]. Journal of
    Marketing, 2021, 85(1): 131-151.

8.  Dong B, Zhuang M, Fang E, et al. Tales of two channels: digital
    advertising performance between AI recommendation and user
    subscription channels\[J\]. Journal of Marketing, 2024, 88(2):
    141-162.

<!-- -->

1.  Yin X, Li J, Si H, et al. Attention marketing in fragmented
    entertainment: How advertising embedding influences purchase
    decision in short-form video apps\[J\]. Journal of Retailing and
    Consumer Services, 2024, 76: 103572.

<!-- -->

1.  Logg J M, Minson J A, Moore D A. Algorithm appreciation: People
    prefer algorithmic to human judgment\[J\]. Organizational Behavior
    and Human Decision Processes, 2019, 151: 90-103.

2.  Kumar V, Rajan B, Venkatesan R, et al. Understanding the role of
    artificial intelligence in personalized engagement marketing\[J\].
    California Management Review, 2019, 61(4): 135-155.

<!-- -->

1.  Kim Y J, Han J Y. Why smartphone advertising attracts customers: A
    model of Web advertising, flow, and personalization\[J\]. Computers
    in Human Behavior, 2014, 33: 256-269.

2.  Hasan M R, Jha A K, Liu Y. Excessive use of online video streaming
    services: Impact of recommender system use, psychological factors,
    and motives\[J\]. Computers in Human Behavior, 2018, 80: 220-228.

3.  Scherr S, Wang K. Explaining the success of social media with
    gratification niches: Motivations behind daytime, nighttime, and
    active use of TikTok in China\[J\]. Computers in Human Behavior,
    2021, 124: 106893.

4.  Zhao H, Wagner C. How TikTok leads users to flow experience:
    investigating the effects of technology affordances with user
    experience level and video length as moderators\[J\]. Internet
    Research: Electronic Networking Applications and Policy, 2023,
    33(2): 820-849.

5.  Ma X, Sun Y, Guo X, et al. Understanding users' negative responses
    to recommendation algorithms in short-video platforms: a perspective
    based on the Stressor-Strain-Outcome (SSO) framework\[J\].
    Electronic Markets, 2022, 32(1): 41-58.

6.  Yang H, Zhang S, Diao Z, et al. What motivates users to continue
    using current short video applications? A dual-path examination of
    flow experience and cognitive lock-in\[J\]. Telematics and
    Informatics, 2023, 85: 102050.

7.  Saúl Vargas, Castells P. Rank and relevance in novelty and diversity
    metrics for recommender systems\[C\]//Proceedings of the 2011 ACM
    Conference on Recommender Systems. Chicago, IL, USA: ACM, 2011:
    23-27.

8.  Wang Y. Humor and camera view on mobile short-form video apps
    influence user experience and technology-adoption intent, an example
    of TikTok (DouYin)\[J\]. Computers in human behavior, 2020, 110:
    106373.

9.  Wang S, Yang D, Shehata B, et al. Exploring effects of intelligent
    recommendation, interactivity, and playfulness on learning
    engagement: An application of TikTok considering the meditation of
    anxiety and moderation of virtual reward\[J\]. Computers in Human
    Behavior, 2023, 149: 107951.

10. El Tantawi M, Bakhurji E, Al-Ansari A, et al. Indicators of
    adolescents' preference to receive oral health information using
    social media\[J\]. Acta Odontologica Scandinavica, 2019, 77(3):
    213-218.

11. Qin Y, Omar B, Musetti A. The addiction behavior of short-form video
    app TikTok: The information quality and system quality
    perspective\[J\]. Frontiers in Psychology, 2022, 13: 932805.

12. Wang J .The Role of Short-Form Video Apps in Mitigating Occupational
    Burnout and Enhancing Life Satisfaction Among Healthcare Workers: A
    Serial Multiple Mediation Model\[J\].Healthcare, 2025, 13(4): 355.

13. Sintas J L, De Francisco L R, Álvarez E G. The nature of leisure
    revisited: An interpretation of digital leisure\[J\]. Journal of
    Leisure Research, 2015, 47(1): 79-101.

14. Syrek C J, Kühnel J, Vahle-Hinz T, et al. Share, like, twitter, and
    connect: Ecological momentary assessment to examine the relationship
    between non-work social media use at work and work engagement\[J\].
    Work & Stress, 2018, 32(3): 209-227.

15. Kühnel J, Vahle-Hinz T, de Bloom J, et al. Staying in touch while at
    work: Relationships between personal social media use at work and
    work-nonwork balance and creativity\[J\]. The International Journal
    of Human Resource Management, 2020, 31(10): 1235-1261.

16. Gellmers J, Yan N. Digital leisure engagement and positive outcomes
    in the workplace: A systematic literature review\[J\]. International
    Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 2023, 20(2):
    1014.

17. Xie J Q, Rost D H, Wang F X, et al. The Association between
    Excessive Social Media Use and Distraction: An Eye Movement Tracking
    Study\[J\]. Information & Management, 2021, 58(2): 103415.

18. Duerden M D, Courtright S H, Widmer M A. Why People Play at Work: A
    Theoretical Examination of Leisure-at-Work\[J\]. Leisure Sciences,
    2018, 40(6): 634-648.

19. Liang Y W. Conceptualization and measurement of work-leisure
    facilitation\[J\]. Journal of Leisure Research, 2018, 49(2):
    109-132.

20. Schaufeli W B, Bakker A B. Defining and measuring work engagement:
    Bringing clarity to the concept\[J\]. Psychology Press, 2010: 10-24.

21. Bandura A. Social Foundations of Thought and Action\[J\]. Journal of
    Applied Psychology, 1986, 12(1): 169-171.

22. Ozimek P, Förster J. The social online‐self‐regulation‐theory: A
    review of self‐regulation in social media\[J\]. Journal of Media
    Psychology, 2021, 33(4): 181-190.

23. Fred R. The Filter Bubble: What the Internet Is Hiding from
    You\[J\]. Portal Libraries & the Academy, 2011, 11(4): 1009-1011.

24. Trautwein Y, Zechiel F, Coussement K, et al. Opening the \'black
    box\' of HRM algorithmic biases - How hiring practices induce
    discrimination on freelancing platforms\[J\]. Journal of Business
    Research, 2025, 192: 115298.

25. Bandura A. Social cognitive theory: an agentic perspective\[J\].
    Asian Journal of Social Psychology, 1999, 2(1): 21-41.

26. Duckworth, Peterson A L, ChristopherMatthews, et al. Grit:
    Perseverance and passion for long-term goals\[J\]. Journal of
    Personality and Social Psychology, 2007, 92(6): 1087-1101.

27. Boukef N, Charki M H, Cheikh-Ammar M. Bridging the gap between
    work‐and nonwork‐related knowledge contributions on enterprise
    social media: The role of the employee-employer relationship\[J\].
    Information Systems Journal, 2024, 34(5): 1538-1578.

28. Dukerich J M, Ashforth B E. Role Transitions in Organizational Life:
    An Identity-Based Perspective\[J\]. Academy of Management Review,
    2000, 26(4): 670-672.

29. Clark, S. C. Work/family border theory: A new theory of work/family
    balance\[J\]. Human Relations, 2000, 53(6): 747--770.

30. Bandura, A. Social foundations of thought and action: A social
    cognitive theory\[M\]. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1986.

31. Bandura A. Human agency in social cognitive theory\[J\]. American
    Psychologist, 1989, 44(9): 1175-1184.

32. Bandura A. Social Cognitive Theory: An Agentic Perspective\[J\].
    Annual Review of Psychology, 2001, 52: 1-26.

33. Michael J, Mccormick, et al. Identifying Leader Social Cognitions:
    Integrating the Causal Reasoning Perspective into Social Cognitive
    Theory\[J\]. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 2004,
    10(4): 2-11.

34. Joo P, Chang S, Il I. Does Social Media Use Influence
    Entrepreneurial Opportunity? A Review of its Moderating Role\[J\].
    Sustainability, 2017, 9(9): 1593.

35. Locke E A. Social foundations of thought and action: A
    social-cognitive view\[J\]. Academy of Management Review, 1987,
    12(1): 169-171.

36. Bandura A. On the functional properties of perceived self-efficacy
    revisited\[J\]. Journal of Management, 2012, 38(1): 9-44.

37. Bandura, Albert. Growing primary of human agency in adaptation and
    change in the electronic era\[J\]. European Psychologist, 2002,
    7(1): 2-16.

38. Chan S C, Lu M T. Understanding Internet Banking Adoption and Use
    Behavior: A Hong Kong Perspective\[J\]. Journal of Global
    Information Management, 2004, 12(3): 21.

39. Compeau D, Higgins C A, Huff S. Social Cognitive Theory and
    Individual Reactions to Computing Technology: A Longitudinal
    Study\[J\]. Mis Quarterly, 1999, 23(2): 145-158.

40. Davis T R V; Luthans F. A social learning approach to organizational
    behavior\[J\]. Academy of Management Review, 1980, 5: 281-290.

41. Chiang, H S. Hsiao K L. YouTube stickiness: the needs, personal, and
    environmental perspective\[J\]. Internet Research, 2015, 25 (1):
    85-106.

42. Keith M J, Babb J S, Lowry P B, et al. The role of mobile-computing
    self-efficacy in consumer information disclosure\[J\]. Information
    Systems Journal, 2015, 25(6): 637-667.

43. Lee E W J, Ho S S, Lwin M O. Extending the social cognitive model --
    examining the external and personal antecedents of social network
    sites use among Singaporean adolescents\[J\]. Computers in Human
    Behavior, 2017, 67(2): 240-251.

44. Dhir A, Kaur P, Rajala R. Why do young people tag photos on social
    networking sites? Explaining user intentions\[J\]. International
    Journal of Information Management, 2018, 38(1): 117-127.

45. Winston P H. Artificial intelligence\[M\]. 2nd ed. Boston, MA:
    Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing Co., Inc., 1984.

46. Fluss D. The AI Revolution in Customer Service: The Contact Center
    Market Is Finally Ready for Virtual Bots, and Not a Moment Too Soon
    for Self-Service\[J\]. Customer Relationship Management, 2017, 2:
    38.

47. Javelosa J. Major firm announces it\'s replacing its employees with
    AI\[N\]. Futurism, 2017-03-30.

48. Choudhury S R. Softbank\'s Pepper robot gets a job waiting tables at
    Pizza Hut\[N\]. CNBC, 2016-05-24.

49. Häubl G, Trifts V .Consumer Decision Making in Online Shopping
    Environments: The Effects of Interactive Decision
    Aids\[J\].Marketing Science, 2000, 19(1): 4-21.

50. Häubl G, Murray K B. Preference construction and persistence in
    digital marketplaces: The role of electronic recommendation
    agents\[J\]. Journal of Consumer Psychology, 2003, 13(1-2): 75-91.

51. SAS Institute Inc. Advanced analytics with SAS\[EB/OL\]. (2017)
    \[2023-04-14\]. https://www.sas.com

52. Komiak S Y X, Benbasat I. The effects of personalization and
    familiarity on trust and adoption of recommendation agents\[J\]. MIS
    quarterly, 2006, 30(4): 941-960.

53. Lu H P, Cheng Y H. Sustainability in online video hosting services:
    the effects of serendipity and flow experience on prolonged usage
    time\[J\]. Sustainability, 2020, 12(3): 1271.

54. Batra R, Ahtola O T. Measuring the hedonic and utilitarian sources
    of consumer attitudes\[J\]. Marketing letters, 1991, 2: 159-170.

55. Hirschman E C, Holbrook M B. Hedonic consumption: emerging concepts,
    methods and propositions\[J\]. Journal of marketing, 1982, 46(3):
    92-101.

56. Strahilevitz M A, Loewenstein G. The effect of ownership history on
    the valuation of objects\[J\]. Journal of consumer research, 1998,
    25(3): 276-289.

57. Huang M H. Designing website attributes to induce experiential
    encounters\[J\]. Computers in Human Behavior, 2003, 19(4): 425-442.

58. Picot-Coupey K, Krey N, Huré E, et al. Still work and/or fun?
    Corroboration of the hedonic and utilitarian shop\*\* value
    scale\[J\]. Journal of Business Research, 2021, 126: 578-590.

59. Akdim K, Casaló L V, Flavián C. The role of utilitarian and hedonic
    aspects in the continuance intention to use social mobile apps\[J\].
    Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, 2022, 66: 102888.

60. Holsapple C W, Wu J. User acceptance of virtual worlds: The hedonic
    framework\[J\]. ACM SIGMIS Database: The DATABASE for Advances in
    Information Systems, 2007, 38(4): 86-89.

61. Kahn, W. A. Psychological conditions of personal engagement and
    disengagement at work \[J\]. Academy of management journal, 1990,
    33(4): 692-724.

62. Maslach C, Leiter M P. The truth about burnout: How organizations
    cause personal stress and what to do about it\[M\]. San Francisco:
    Jossey-Bass, 1997.

63. Schaufeli W B, Salanova M, González-Romá V, et al. The measurement
    of engagement and burnout: A confirmative analytic approach\[J\].
    Journal of Happiness Studies, 2002, 3: 71-92.

64. Maslach, C, Schaufeli W B, Leiter M P. Job burnout\[J\]. Annual
    review of psychology, 2003, 54: 397-422.

65. 张轶文,甘怡群.中文版Utrecht工作投入量表(UWES)的信效度检验\[J\].中国临床心理学杂志,
    2005, 13(3): 4.

66. Bakker A B, Schaufeli W B, Leiter M P, et al. Work engagement: An
    emerging concept in occupational health psychology\[J\]. Work and
    Stress, 2008, 22(3): 187-200.

67. Hallberg U, Johansson G, Schaufeli W. Type A behavior and work
    situation: Associations with burnout and work engagement\[J\].
    Scandinavian Journal of Psychology, 2007, 48(2): 135-142.

68. Bakker A B, Demerouti E, Sanz-Vergel, A I. Burnout and work
    engagement: the JD-R approach\[J\]. Annual Review of Organizational
    Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 2014, 1: 389-411.

69. Xanthopoulou, D, Bakker, A B, Demerout E, et al. Reciprocal
    relationships between job resources, personal resources, and work
    engagement \[J\]. Journal of Vocational behavior, 2009, 74(3):
    235-244.

70. SAKS A. M. Antecedents and consequences of employee engagement\[J\].
    Journal of Managerial Psychology, 2006, 21(7): 600-619.

71. Bouckenooghe D, Raja U, Abbas M. How does self-regulation of
    emotions impact employee work engagement: The mediating role of
    social resources\[J\]. Journal of Management & Organization, 2014,
    20(4): 508-525.

72. Chen L, Li X, Xing L. From mindfulness to work engagement: The
    mediating roles of work meaningfulness, emotion regulation, and job
    competence\[J\]. Frontiers in Psychology, 2022, 13: 997638.

73. Schaufeli W B, Bakker A B. Job demands, job resources, and their
    relationship with burnout and engagement: A multi‐sample study\[J\].
    Journal of Organizational Behavior, 2004, 25(3): 293-315.

74. Owens B P, Baker W E, Sumpter D M, et al. Relational energy at work:
    Implications for job engagement and job performance\[J\]. Journal of
    Applied Psychology, 2016, 101(1): 35-49.

75. 刘润刚, 张宏如, 刘洪.
    工作弹性能否促进员工工作投入?------一个并行三重中介模型\[J\].
    经济与管理研究, 2022, 43(06): 68-79.

76. 李燕萍, 吴丹.
    程序公平对员工工作投入影响的研究------状态焦虑与上下级沟通的作用.
    科学学与科学技术管理, 2016, 37(05): 138-149.

77. 卢纪华, 陈丽莉, 赵希男.
    组织支持感、组织承诺与知识型员工敬业度的关系研究\[J\].
    科学学与科学技术管理, 2013, 34(01): 147-153.

78. 柯江林, 孙健敏, 李永瑞. 心理资本: 本土量表的开发及中西比较\[J\].
    心理学报, 2009, 41(09): 875-888.

79. 王桢, 陈乐妮, 李旭培. 变革型领导与工作投入:
    基于情感视角的调节中介模型\[J\]. 管理评论, 2015, 27(9): 120-129+212.

80. 冯彩玲, 张丽华, 时勘.
    领导风格会提高员工的工作积极性和创新性吗?------企业家导向的跨层次调节作用\[J\].
    研究与发展管理, 2014, 26(03): 62-73.

81. Csikszentmihalyi M. Beyond boredom and anxiety\[M\]. San Francisco:
    Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1975.

82. Fullagar C, Fave A D. Flow at work: Measurement and
    implications\[M\]. London: Routledge, 2017.

83. Csikszentmihalyi M. Flow and creativity\[J\]. Namta Journal, 1997,
    22(2): 60-97.

84. Csikszentmihalyi M, Lefevre J. Optimal experience in work and
    leisure\[J\]. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 1989,
    56(5): 815-822.

85. Csikszentmihalhi M. Finding flow: The psychology of engagement with
    everyday life\[M\]. London: Hachette UK, 2020.

86. Jackson S A, Eklund R C. Assessing flow in physical activity: The
    flow state scale-2 and dispositional flow scale--2\[J\]. Journal of
    Sport and Exercise Psychology, 2002, 24(2): 133-150.

87. Bakker A B. The work-related flow inventory: Construction and
    initial validation of the WOLF\[J\]. Journal of Vocational Behavior,
    2008, 72(3): 400-414.

88. Bakker A B, Demerouti E, Sanz-Vergel A. Job demands--resources
    theory: Ten years later\[J\]. Annual review of organizational
    psychology and organizational behavior, 2023, 10(1): 25-53.

<!-- -->

1.  Hackman J R, Oldham G R. Motivation through the design of work: Test
    of a theory\[J\]. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance,
    1976, 16(2): 250-279.

2.  Bakker A B, Van Woerkom M. Flow at work: A self-determination
    perspective\[J\]. Occupational Health Science, 2017, 1(1-2): 47-65.

<!-- -->

1.  Makikangas A, Bakker A B, Aunola K, et al. Job resources and flow at
    work: Modelling the relationship via latent growth curve and mixture
    model methodology\[J\]. Journal of Occupational and Organizational
    Psychology, 2010, 83(3): 795-814.

2.  Bakker A B, Hetland J, Olsen O K, et al. Daily strengths use and
    employee well‐being: The moderating role of personality\[J\].
    Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2019, 92(1):
    144-168.

3.  Zubair A, Kamal A. Authentic leadership and creativity: Mediating
    role of work- related flow and psychological capital\[J\]. Journal
    of Behavioural Sciences, 2015, 25 (1): 150-171.

4.  Demerouti E, Bakker A B, Sonnentag S, et al. Work-related flow and
    energy at work and at home: A study on the role of daily
    recovery\[J\]. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 2012, 33(2):
    276-295.

5.  Fredrickson B L. The role of positive emotions in positive
    psychology. The broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions\[J\].
    American Psychologist, 2001, 56(3): 218-226.

6.  Neisser U. Cognitive psychology\[M\]. New York:
    Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1967.

7.  Ajzen I, Fishbein M. Belief, attitude, intention and behavior: An
    introduction to theory and research\[M\]. MA: Addison- Wesley, 1975.

8.  Arthur W B. Increasing returns and path dependence in the
    economy\[M\]. Ann Arbor, Michigan: University of michigan Press,
    1994.

9.  Zauberman, G. The intertemporal dynamics of consumer lock-in \[J\].
    Journal of Consumer Research, 2003, 30(3): 405-419.

10. Johnson E J, Bellman S, Lohse G. Cognitive lockin and the power law
    of practice\[J\]. Journal of Marketing, 2003, 67(2): 62-75.

11. Murray K B, Häubl G. Explaining cognitive lock-in: The role of
    skill-based habits of use in consumer choice\[J\]. Journal of
    Consumer Research, 2007, 34(1): 77-88.

12. Biswas D. Economics of information in the Web economy: Towards a new
    theory? \[J\]. Journal of Business Research, 2004, 57(7): 724-733.

13. Shin D H, Kim W Y. Forecasting customer switching intention in
    mobile service: An exploratory study of predictive factors in mobile
    number portability\[J\]. Technological forecasting and social
    change, 2008, 75(6): 854-874.

14. Shih H P. Cognitive lock‐in effects on consumer purchase intentions
    in the context of B 2 CW eb sites\[J\]. Psychology & Marketing,
    2012, 29(10): 738-751.

15. Shi X, Lin Z, Liu J, et al. Consumer loyalty toward smartphone
    brands: The determining roles of deliberate inertia and cognitive
    lock-in\[J\]. Information & Management, 2018, 55(7): 866-876.

16. Kitsantas A, Zimmerman B J, Cleary T. The role of observation and
    emulation in the development of athletic self-regulation\[J\].
    Journal of Educational Psychology, 2000, 92(4): 811--823.

17. Baumeister, R. F. Esteem threat, self-regulatory breakdown, and
    emotional distress as factors in self-defeating behavior \[J\].
    Review of General Psychology, 1997, 1(2): 145-174.

18. Higgins, E. T. The 'self digest': Self-knowledge serving
    self-regulatory functionns \[J\]. Journal of Personality and Social
    Psychology, 1996, 71(6): 1062-1083.

19. Locke E A, Latham G P. A theory of goal setting & task
    performance\[M\]. Prentice-Hall, Inc, 1990.

20. Karoly, P. Mechanisms of self-regulation: A systems view\[J\].
    Annual Review of Psychology, 1993, 44(1): 23--52.

21. Carver C S, Scheier M F. On the self-regulation of behavior\[M\].
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998.

22. Baumeister, R. F. Yielding to temptation: Self-control failure,
    impulsive purchasing, and consumer behavior \[J\]. Journal of
    Consumer Research, 2002, 28(4): 670-676.

23. Baumeister R F, Vohs K D. Self-Regulation, ego depletion, and
    motivation\[J\]. Social and Personality Psychology Compass, 2007,
    1(1): 115-128.

24. Carver C S, Scheier M F. Origins and functions of positive and
    negative affect: A control-process view\[J\]. Psychological Review,
    1990, 97(1): 19-35.

25. Higgins E T, Shah J, Friedman R. Emotional responses to goal
    attainment: Strength of regulatory focus as moderator\[J\]. Journal
    of Personality and Social Psychology, 1997, 72(3): 515-525.

26. Bagozzi, R. P. The legacy of the technology acceptance model and a
    proposal for a paradigm shift \[J\]. Journal of the Association for
    Information Systems, 2007, 8(4): 243-254.

27. Schwarzer R, Diehl M, Schmitz G S. Self-regulation scale\[J\].
    Journal of Personality Assessment, 1999.

28. Diehl M, Semegon A B, Schwarzer R. Assessing attention control in
    goal pursuit: A component of dispositional self-regulation\[J\].
    Journal of personality assessment, 2006, 86(3): 306-317.

29. Gökçearslan Ş, Mumcu F K, Haşlaman T, et al. Modelling smartphone
    addiction: The role of smartphone usage, self-regulation, general
    self-efficacy and cyberloafing in university students\[J\].
    Computers in Human Behavior, 2016, 63: 639-649.

30. Wang Z, Yang X, Zhang X. Relationships among boredom proneness,
    sensation seeking and smartphone addiction among Chinese college
    students: Mediating roles of pastime, flow experience and
    self-regulation\[J\]. Technology in Society, 2020, 62: 101319.

31. Khan N A, Khan A N, Moin M F. Self-regulation and social media
    addiction: A multi-wave data analysis in China\[J\]. Technology in
    Society, 2021, 64: 101527.

32. Brockner J, Higgins E T. Regulatory Focus Theory: Implications for
    the Study of Emotions at Work\[J\]. Organizational Behavior & Human
    Decision Processes, 2001, 86(1): 35-66.

33. Bagozzi R P. The self-regulation of attitudes, intentions, and
    behavior\[J\]. Social Psychology Quarterly, 1992, 55(2): 178-204.

34. Vohs K D, Faber R J. Spent resources: Self-regulatory resource
    availability affects impulse buying \[J\]. Journal of Consumer
    Research, 2007, 33(4): 537-547.

35. Zemack-Rugar Y, Corus C, Brinberg D. If at first you do succeed, do
    you try, try again? Developing the persistence--licensing response
    measure to understand, predict, and modify behavior following
    subgoal success \[J\]. Journal of Marketing Research, 2019, 56(2):
    324-344.

36. Scopelliti I, Vosgerau J, Huh Y E. Response to Commentaries on the
    Exerting Self‐Control≠Sacrificing Pleasure Research Dialogue\[J\].
    Journal of Consumer Psychology, 2020, 30(1): 215-216.

37. Bagozzi R P, Dholakia U. Goal setting and goal striving in consumer
    behavior\[J\]. Journal of marketing, 1999, 63(4_suppl1): 19-32.

38. Freitas A L, Higgins E T. Enjoying goal-directed action: The role of
    regulatory fit \[J\]. Psychological Science, 2002, 13(1): 1-6.

39. Fennis B M. Self-control, self-regulation, and consumer wellbeing: A
    life history perspective\[J\]. Current opinion in psychology, 2022,
    46: 101344.

40. Kelly E L, Conley J J. Personality and compatibility: A prospective
    analysis of marital stability and marital satisfaction\[J\]. Journal
    of Personality and Social Psychology, 1987, 52(1): 27-40.

41. Garbinsky E N, Mead N L, Gregg D. Popping the positive illusion of
    financial responsibility can increase personal savings: Applications
    in emerging and western markets\[J\]. Journal of Marketing, 2021,
    85(3): 97-112.

42. Holsapple C W, Wu J. User acceptance of virtual worlds: the Hedonic
    framework\[J\]. ACM SIGMIS Database, 2007, 38(4): 86-89.

43. Babin B J, Darden W R, Griffin M. Work and/or fun: measuring hedonic
    and utilitarian shopping value\[J\]. Journal of consumer research,
    1994, 20(4): 644-656.

44. Fraticelli L, Smentek C, Tardivo D, et al. Characterizing the
    content related to oral health education on TikTok\[J\].
    International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health,
    2021, 18(24): 13260.

45. Zhang N, Hazarika B, Chen K, et al. A cross-national study on the
    excessive use of short-video applications among college
    students\[J\]. Computers in Human Behavior, 2023, 145: 107752.

46. 何莲子. 开放式创新社区用户知识分享行为的影响因素研究\[D\].
    杭州电子科技大学, 2021.

47. 晏齐宏.
    用户算法感知对反馈行为的影响机制研究------基于社会认知理论的分析\[J\].
    新闻与写作, 2022, (07): 76-87.

48. Nakamura J, Csikszentmihalyi M. The Concept of Flow\[J\]. Springer
    Netherlands, 2014.

49. Duerden M D, Courtright S H, Widmer M A. Why people play at work: A
    theoretical examination of leisure-at-work\[J\]. Leisure Sciences,
    2018, 40(6): 634-648

50. 埃利奥特·阿伦森等. 社会心理学（第五版）\[M\]. 北京:
    中国轻工业出版社, 2006.

51. Salanova M, Bakker A B, Llorens S. Flow at Work: Evidence for an
    Upward Spiral of Personal and Organizational Resources\*\[J\].
    Journal of Happiness Studies, 2006, 7(1): 1-22.

52. Veiga S P D M, Turban D B. Are affect and perceived stress
    detrimental or beneficial to job seekers? The role of learning goal
    orientation in job search self-regulation\[J\]. Organizational
    Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 2014, 125(2): 193-203.

53. Sonnentag S, Binnewies C, Ohly S. Event-sampling methods in
    occupational health psychology\[M\]// Research methods in
    occupational health psychology. New York: Routledge, 2012.

54. Colzato L S, van den Wildenberg W P M, Zmigrod S, et al. Action
    video gaming and cognitive control: Playing first person shooter
    games is associated with improvement in working memory but not
    action inhibition\[J\]. Psychological Research, 2013, 77(2):
    234-239.

55. Waris O, Jaeggi S M, Seitz A R, et al. Video gaming and working
    memory: A large-scale cross-sectional correlative study\[J\].
    Computers in Human Behavior, 2019, 97: 94-103.

56. Vahle-Hinz T, Mauno S, De Bloom J, et al. Rumination for innovation?
    Analysing the lon gitudinal effects of work-related rumination on
    creativity at work and off-job recovery\[J\]. Work and Stress, 2017,
    31(4): 315-337.

57. Weinberger E, Wach D, Stephan U, et al. Having a creative day:
    Understanding entrepreneurs\' daily idea generation through a
    recovery lens\[J\]. Journal of Business Venturing, 2018, 33(1):
    1-19.

58. Gao L, Bai X. An empirical study on continuance intention of mobile
    social networking services\[J\]. Asia Pacific Journal of Marketing &
    Logistics, 2014, 26(2): 168-189.

59. Edwards J R, Rothbard N P. Mechanisms linking work and family:
    Clarifying the relationship between work and family constructs\[J\].
    Academy of Management Review, 2000, 25: 178-199.

60. Schüler J. The dark side of the moon\[M\]//ENGESER S, ed. Advances
    in flow research. New York: Springer, 2012.

61. Polites G L, Karahanna E. Shackled to the status quo: the inhibiting
    effects of incumbent system habit, switching costs, and inertia on
    new system acceptance\[J\]. Mis Quarterly, 2012, 36 (1): 21-42.

62. Hong FY, Huang D H, Lin H Y, et al. Analysis of the psychological
    traits, Facebook usage, and Facebook addiction model of Taiwanese
    university students\[J\]. Telematics Information, 2014, 31 (4):
    597-606.

63. Gan C, Li H. Understanding the effects of gratifications on the
    continuance intention to use WeChat in China: a perspective on uses
    and gratifications\[J\]. Computers in Human Behavior, 2018, 78:
    306-315.

64. Bandura, Albert. "Social cognitive theory of mass communication"
    \[J\]. Media Psychology, 2001, 3(3): 265-299.

65. Kitsantas, Anastasia. The role of self-regulation strategies and
    self-efficacy perceptions in successful weight loss
    maintenance\[J\]. Psychology & Health, 2000, 15(6): 811-820.

66. Baumeister R F, Bratslavsky E, Muraven M, et al. Ego depletion: Is
    the active self a limited resource? \[J\]. Journal of Personality
    and Social Psychology, 1998, 74(5): 1252-1265.

67. Zikic J, Klehe U C. Going against the grain: The role of skilled
    migrants\' self‐regulation in finding quality employment\[J\].
    Journal of Organizational Behavior, 2021, 42(8): 1023-1041.

68. Mugon J, Struk A, Danckert J. A Failure to Launch: Regulatory Modes
    and Boredom Proneness\[J\]. Frontiers in Psychology, 2018, 9: 1126.

69. Kadzikowska-Wrzosek, Romana. Self-regulation and bedtime
    procrastination: The role of self-regulation skills and
    chronotype\[J\]. Personality and Individual Differences, 2018, 128:
    10-15.

70. Muraven, M, Shmueli D, Burkley E. Conserving self-control
    strength\[J\]. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 2006,
    91: 524-537.

71. Schmeichel B J, Vohs K D, Baumeister R F. Intellectual performance
    and ego depletion: Role of the self in logical reasoning and other
    information processing\[J\]. Journal of Personality and Social
    Psychology, 2003, 85: 33- 46.

72. Hasenkamp W, Wilson-Mendenhall C D, Duncan E, et al. Mind wandering
    and attention during focused meditation: A fine-grained temporal
    analysis of fluctuating cognitive states\[J\]. NeuroImage, 2012,
    59(1): 750-760.

73. Hockey G R J. A motivational control theory of cognitive
    fatigue\[M\]//ACKERMAN P L, ed. Cognitive fatigue: Multidisciplinary
    perspectives on current research and future applications. American
    Psychological Association, 2011.

74. Malinowski P. Neural mechanisms of attentional control in
    mindfulness meditation\[J\]. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 2013, 7:
    1-11.

75. Vago D R, Silbersweig D A. Self-awareness, self-regulation, and
    self-transcendence (S-ART): a framework for understanding the
    neurobiological mechanisms of mindfulness\[J\]. Frontiers in Human
    Neuroence, 2012, 6: 296.

76. Webster J, Trevino L K, Ryan L. The dimensionality and correlates of
    flow in human computer interaction\[J\]. Computers in Human
    Behavior, 1993, 9(4): 411-426.

77. Hair, Anderson, Tatham, Anderson R E, et al. Multivariate data
    analysis (International Edition)\[M\]. 5th ed. Pearson, 1998.

78. Shin D H, Shin Y J. Why do people play social network games?\[J\].
    Computers in Human Behavior, 2011, 27(2): 852-861.

79. Chang Y P, Zhu D H. The role of perceived social capital and flow
    experience in building users\' continuance intention to social
    networking sites in China\[J\]. Computers in Human Behavior, 2012,
    28(3): 995-1001.

80. Hobfoll, Stevan E. Conservation of resources. A new attempt at
    conceptualizing stress.\[J\]. American Psychologist, 1989, 44(3):
    513-524.

81. Meijman T F, Mulder G. Psychological aspects of workload\[M\]//A
    handbook of work and organizational psychology. 1st ed. Psychology
    Press, 1998.

82. Leroy S. Why is it so hard to do my work? The challenge of attention
    residue when switching between work tasks\[J\]. Organizational
    Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 2009, 109(2): 168-181.

83. Patterer A S, Yanagida T, Jana Kühnel, et al. Staying in touch, yet
    expected to be? A diary study on the relationship between personal
    smartphone use at work and work-nonwork interaction\[J\]. Journal of
    Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2021, 94(3): 735-761.

84. Koak M E, Gorgievski M, Bakker A B. Recovery from work by playing
    video games\[J\]. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 2024,
    73(3): 1331-1360.

85. Sun Y, et al. Impact of enterprise social media affordances on
    thriving at work: a perspective from the psychological empowerment
    theory\[C\]//2020 International Conference on E-Commerce and
    Internet Technology (ECIT). Piscataway: IEEE, 2020.

86. Zhang J, Guo J, Jiang R, et al. The moderating role of enterprise
    social media functionalities on employees\' social-related use
    during work time\[J\]. Information & management, 2023, 60(3):
    103770.

87. Lim V K G, Chen D J Q. Cyberloafing at the workplace: gain or drain
    on work?\[J\]. Behaviour & Information Technology, 2012, 31(4):
    343-353.

88. Andreassen C S, Torsheim T, Pallesen S. Use of online social network
    sites for personal purposes at work: does it impair self-reported
    performance?\[J\]. Comprehensive Psychology, 2014, 3(1): 1-21.

89. Montag M, Bertel S, Koning B B D, et al. Exploration vs. limitation
    -- An investigation of instructional design techniques for spatial
    ability training on mobile devices\[J\]. Computers in Human
    Behavior, 2021, 118: 106678.

90. Lin H, Tian J, Cheng B. Facilitation or hindrance: The contingent
    effect of organizational artificial intelligence adoption on
    proactive career behavior\[J\]. Computers in human behavior, 2024,
    152: 108092.

91. Bucher T. The algorithmic imaginary: exploring the ordinary affects
    of Facebook algorithms\[J\]. Information, Communication & Society,
    2017, 20(1): 30-44.

92. Ophir E, Nass C, Wagner A D. Cognitive control in media
    multitaskers\[J\]. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
    of the United States of America, 2009, 106(37): 15583-15587.

93. Sanders G S , Baron R S .The Motivating Effects of Distraction on
    Task Performance\[J\].Journal of Personality & Social Psychology,
    1975, 32(6): 956-963.

94. Liu Y, Zhang J, Liu C, et al. A Review of Attention Restoration
    Theory: Implications for Designing Restorative Environments\[J\].
    Sustainability, 2024, 16(9): 3639.
